---
layout: post
title:  "Preamble - your Singapore expat living blog"
categories: [Intro]
image: assets/images/preamble.jpg
description: "Welcome to my blog, a place where I share my perspective and experience of living as an expat in Singapore."
---

Welcome to my blog, a place where I share my perspective and experience of living as an expat in Singapore. You've arrived at the ideal destination for tips and tricks on expat living in Singapore.

I'm a Hong Konger in his late 20s who has been living in Singapore for the past 5 years. I've wanted to start this blog for a while, but various reasons delayed its creation, with the primary one being "I haven't been in Singapore long enough." As someone who likes to observe and absorb, I always felt there was more to take in before drawing any respectable conclusions. This is especially pertinent when it comes to comparing cities. A city's fabric and texture change over time, and needless to say, Singapore and Hong Kong (two places where I've spent a lot of time) have changed immensely.

As I hit my 5-year mark in Singapore, I felt now was a good time to share. Perhaps there is some magic to this nicely rounded number, or maybe it feels like both places have calmed down after the past few years of chaos. After all, Covid has been relegated to 'just another flu,' travel is back, and interest rates are up. Heck, even Lindsay Lohan is back to making movies.

In this blog, we'll be diving into societal issues and examining slices of life in Singapore, from housing, education, and the prevalence of greenery to the best dim sum places. While Hong Kong and San Francisco (countries where I've lived) serve as countries of comparison in my blog, my content aims to be applicable to expats of all countries and locals in Singapore. Whether you are planning a move to Singapore, figuring out the best way to settle in as an expat, simply interested in Singapore living, curious about how I perceive this beautiful nation, or just curious about my life's journey, this blog will be the perfect place for you.

I hope this blog provides a little insight into each of these havens and helps those who are exploring a move to Singapore or will be moving to Singapore.

Best regards,

David