---
layout: post
title:  "Expert tips for destinations out of Singapore in 2023"
categories: [Flights, Hong Kong, Cathay Pacific, Singapore Airlines, Singapore]
image: assets/images/plane1.jpg
---
There was a long weekend this past month in Singapore, and naturally, many Singaporeans traveled abroad.

Personally, I love traveling. I once insisted that the number of unique countries I've visited equated to my age. While I am fortunate enough to be achieving that, I find myself wanting to revisit specific countries that I have enjoyed before. Today, we’ll dive into traveling out of Singapore, popular tourist destinations and how to optimize your flight loyalty programs.

#### Why do Singaporeans love to travel?

I have always wondered, but it was not until I experienced the city for myself that I realized the reasons below.

+ There’s not much to do in Singapore - what’s new
+ Close proximity to cheap South East Asian countries. Spend less than $500 SGD on flights and hotels for a 5 day trip? Worth
+ Seek activities that are not easily accessible in Singapore, such as skiing, hiking, or surfing
+ Escape the heat (i.e. to AU, JP, KR)
+ Did I mention there’s not much to do in Singapore?

Travel is often seen as an escape for Singaporeans because it offers a chance to disconnect from the fast-paced, high-pressure environment of the city-state and experience different cultures, scenery, and lifestyles. For many, travel is also a way to recharge and gain new perspectives, which can help alleviate stress and burnout. Personally, I try to squeeze in 3-4 short trips within Asia and one longer trip to the US or Europe each year.

While travel can provide a temporary respite from the stresses of daily life, it's important to acknowledge that it is not a sustainable or permanent solution to these issues. Ultimately, learning to appreciate life in Singapore is the ultimate goal, but it takes time and reaching certain stages in life to truly grasp its value.

#### Popular short - mid range holiday destinations from Singapore

Enough philosophy. Here are some popular destinations to travel to from Singapore

+ Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia - (1 hour from SG) Malaysia truly Asia
+ Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam - (2 hours from SG) Unique blend of natural beauty, rich history, and delicious cuisine. Dirt cheap
+ Bangkok, Thailand - (2.5 hours from SG) Famed for its street food, night markets, and temples, Bangkok offers a mix of tradition and modernity that appeals to many Singaporean travelers
+ Bali, Indonesia (2.5 hours from SG) - Known for its beautiful beaches, cultural landmarks, and vibrant nightlife, Bali is a popular destination for Singaporeans seeking a quick getaway
+ Hong Kong - (4 hours from SG) Bustling shopping districts to its theme parks and historic landmarks
+ Seoul, South Korea - (6 hours from SG) A city that never sleeps. Fan favourite for those that love shopping, food, and entertainment
+ Taipei, Taiwan - (6 hours from SG) From its night markets to its hot springs, Taipei offers a unique blend of modern amenities and traditional culture that attracts many Singaporean travelers
+ Tokyo, Japan - (7.5 hours from SG) A city that blends the ancient and the contemporary, Tokyo is a popular destination for Singaporeans looking to experience Japanese culture and cuisine. Yen is so fucking cheap please go

For 2023, my top travel destinations are Japan (depreciating yen), Seoul (shopping shopping shopping) and New Zealand (hikes, nature and the cold)

#### Changi vs HKIA

Similar to Hong Kong, Singapore only has one airport to fly out of for the average joe. Changi airport (Singapore) and Hong Kong International Airport are both renowned for best-in-class facilities, speed and comfort. Whilst the pandemic has had a scintillating impact on both, Hong Kong’s airport was disproportionately hollowed given the city’s strict quarantine rules. Comparing the stats between the two -

|     | Changi | HKIA  |
| :---        |    :----:   | :---: |
| Passenger traffic (2021)      |  25.5M    |   9.9M    |
| Connectivity  | 100 airlines serving 220 destinations    | 120 airlines serving 220 destinations     |
| Runways / terminals   | 4 terminals 2 runways| 2 terminals 2 runways |

With incredible comfort at both airports, arriving 1.5 hours before your flight provides plenty of buffer time. Often, I’d arrive earlier too for lounge access or just to walk around the shops. For Singapore residents (PR, epass, citizens), you’d go through automatic gates during customs as well which saves a lot of time.
 
<u> Airline companies <u>

The two major airlines of these countries need no introduction. Cathay Pacific and Singapore Airlines are both major airlines based in Asia, and both are known for their high-quality service and premium offerings. 

Here are some comparisons between the two (note - some of this might be legacy given COVID reopenings):

|     | Cathay Pacific | Singapore Airlines  |
| :---        |    :----:   | :---: |
| Network and destinations     |  80 destinations   |   130 destinations    |
| Fleet  | 150 aircrafts    | 130 aircrafts    |
| Economy class experience   | Top notch | Top notch |
| Business class experience   | Top notch | Top notch |
| Lounge experience   | Top notch | Top notch |
| Inflight food   | Better than SQ | Still really good |
| Loyalty program   | Easier to earn on Asia Miles than Krisflyer | Krisflyer |

Personally, I’m still a Cathay Pacific fan boy, but have since made the switch to optimizing for SQ miles instead (more on that in the next section). One thing important to note is Krisflyer does have its budget airline arm which is Scoot Airlines. Taking a short trip to Bali / Bangkok? This is the go-to.

#### My strategy for airline optimization

Whilst this article does not focus on mileage accrual tactics, I do want to cover my strategy for airline optimization.

Before 2020:
+ Cathay Gold (One World)
+ SQ Silver (Star Alliance)

Personally, I was a loyal customer of Cathay Pacific before the pandemic and maintained a Gold status. However, it ultimately does have its inconvenience when flying. For example, if I were to go to Seoul, the best One World / Cathay Pacific flight path is to fly from Singapore to Hong Kong, then Hong Kong to Seoul. On the other hand, a SQ flight or even an Asiana flight (part of Star Alliance) could get me to Seoul directly, saving an extra 4-5 hours. Cathay Pacific simply does not have a hub in Singapore. As a result, it may not be the most convenient option for travelers looking to fly to or from Singapore, especially if they are looking for non-stop flights.

Now aiming for:
+ SQ Gold, PPS club
+ Cathay Silver

For Hong Kong-ers, unless you’re constantly flying back to Hong Kong or your company allows you to layover in Hong Kong before jetting off elsewhere for your work trips (that was my case), I would recommend switching over to Star Alliance for more direct trips. All that being said, I’d like to maintain silver for Cathay simply for checking in at the business class counter.

#### Random tidbits when re-entering Changi airport

+ Automatic gates to re-enter. Don’t queue for the immigration counter.
+ Remember to fill in your health arrival form
+ Don’t do drugs and traffic drugs
    + It’s bad for you
    + Capital punishment if you’re caught with any
    + Risk of getting tested of drugs in your system
+ Don’t hand carry a bunch of branded shopping bags when passing customs in Singapore. If you get GST taxed on those items, it’s your fault. It’s a matter of luck though. I’ve seen a girl hauling a Birkin and carrying 3 LV shopping bags and got away with it. Bring a duffle bag instead to hold your luxury goods if you want to hand carry.
+ For those who like a tipple - buy your duty free drinks. The alcohol limit for duty-free allowance in Singapore is 1 liter of spirits, 1 liter of wine, and 1 liter of beer per person. These limits apply to both arriving and departing passengers, and the alcohol must be in unopened and original packaging

I’ll be providing more flight booking tips and travel hacks at a later time. Let me know what your favourite destination is. Subscribe now to see more content like this.

