---
layout: post
title:  "10 reasons to move to Singapore"
categories: [Immigration, move, relocation, Singapore]
image: assets/images/unused.jpg
---

I have been asked many times what the main reasons are for moving to Singapore. I discussed my personal reasons in an earlier post, but that was based on my pre-move conception of the country. Now, after residing here for 5 years and witnessing the experiences of expats in Singapore, as well as interacting with locals, I can confidently state that there are clear-cut reasons for choosing to move to Singapore. With that in mind, I present to you my top ten reasons for living in Singapore.

1. Strong Economy: Singapore's robust and thriving economy is one of the key reasons why many people choose to move here. As a global financial hub, the city-state provides abundant job opportunities in sectors such as finance, technology, healthcare, and logistics. Its business-friendly environment and supportive infrastructure make it an attractive destination for professionals seeking career growth. Singapore is also a stable nation that many value. The job opportunity I’ve had here parallels that of the US and is stronger than that of Hong Kong.

2. Safety and Security: No country is safer than Singapore. No one will deny this. Singapore consistently ranks among the safest countries in the world, with low crime rates and efficient law enforcement. You can enjoy peace of mind and a secure environment for yourself and your family. Worried about going home at 3am? That’s not a concern in Singapore. Worried about getting pickpocketed on the train? That’s not a concern in Singapore. Worried about your kids being kidnapped from a park? That’s not a concern in Singapore. This is the biggest reason of why expats want to move to Singapore

3. Excellent Infrastructure: Singapore boasts world-class infrastructure, which is essential for a comfortable and convenient lifestyle. From a well-connected public transportation system to efficient public services, you'll find that everything runs smoothly in this city-state. The MRT (subway) connects all over the island and is still expanding its presence with new train lines being built. Well-maintained roads, advanced healthcare facilities, and modern amenities contribute to a high standard of living. I

4. Cultural Diversity: One of Singapore's greatest assets is its cultural diversity. With a mix of Chinese, Malay, Indian, and Western influences, the city-state embraces a multicultural society. This diversity is evident in its vibrant festivals, mouthwatering cuisine, and traditional customs. Living in Singapore means being part of a rich tapestry of cultures and enjoying a truly global experience. Is there racism? Yes. But that’s in any country, especially if you are an expat there. Are there clashes because of cultures and race? Yes. But that’s in any country as well. If anything, Singapore does a great job in maintaining racial harmony.

5. Education System: If you have children or are pursuing higher education, Singapore's renowned education system will be of great interest. The city-state is home to top-ranking universities (NUS broke into the top 10 in the world this year I believe), international schools, and well-structured academic programs. The emphasis on quality education ensures that students receive a solid foundation for their future success. For expats, Singapore international schools are some of the top notch in the world (see more about education here). The local education system is intense, but that’s why you send your child to private or international school if you can afford it. The same applies to other countries

6. Clean: Despite being a bustling urban center, Singapore is committed to maintaining a clean and green environment. The government's strict environmental policies have resulted in well-managed parks, gardens, and nature reserves. You can enjoy green spaces, pristine streets, and a city that takes pride in its cleanliness. Now, it’s almost hysterical to complain about this but all the cleanliness takes away from the grunge that any country should have. However, this is about reasons to live in Singapore, and cleanliness is apparent

7. Healthcare Excellence: Singapore's healthcare system is world-class, with state-of-the-art medical facilities and highly skilled healthcare professionals. The country consistently ranks among the best in terms of healthcare outcomes and accessibility. You can have peace of mind knowing that quality healthcare services are readily available when you need them. Private and public healthcare is both amazing too. The country is tiny so a hospital is always at arms reach. Doctors are all quality (even the GPs though they look miserable) and it’s a luxury locals and expats in Singapore always forget

8. Food and Dining: Prepare your taste buds for an unforgettable culinary adventure in Singapore. The city-state is renowned for its diverse food scene, offering a wide range of cuisines to satisfy every palate. From affordable street food at hawker centers to Michelin-starred restaurants, you'll discover a gastronomic paradise where culinary delights await at every turn. I love that you can eat cheap if you want and then eat expensive the next day if that’s what you desire. Moving here for the food isn’t something people usually think about but it’s an unassuming luxury too. The issue with Singapore right now is that there are too many medium-priced food establishments that are not worth, but it takes time to really find what restaurants should be on your blacklist.

9. Travel Opportunities: Singapore's strategic location in Southeast Asia makes it an ideal base for exploring the region. With excellent connectivity and transportation links, you can easily travel to neighboring countries and immerse yourself in diverse cultures, stunning landscapes, and unique experiences. Satiate your wanderlust and embark on exciting adventures just a short distance away. You’ll be able to get some great flight deals from this SEA hub too. I averaged 15-20 trips prior to COVID and now 5-7 trips post COVID. All from the heart of Singapore. 

10. Quality of Life: Ultimately, moving to Singapore promises a high quality of life. With efficient public services, good infrastructure, a safe environment, and various amenities, you can enjoy a comfortable and prosperous lifestyle. Singapore consistently ranks well in global quality of life indexes, reflecting its commitment to providing a thriving and inclusive community for residents. Yes, the cost of living is high but taxes are low. You have the choice to live lavishly or not.

If you're seeking a dynamic and cosmopolitan city that offers tremendous opportunities, a diverse culture, and an excellent standard of living, Singapore could be the perfect destination for you. From its strong economy to its safe environment, world-class healthcare, and culinary delights, Singapore has much to offer. Consider these 10 compelling reasons as you contemplate your next chapter in life. I’ve talked about Singapore’s weaknesses. It’s time to talk about Singapore’s strengths too. Don’t forget to subscribe to follow more content like this. 

